Newcomer Info Handout
=====================

There is the possibility of an outbreak of COVID-19, a virus which
presents similarly to the flu. To help prevent this we ask you to follow
the instructions of all staff as there are procedures in place to limit
the spread. Please follow these guidelines until a staff member tells
you to do otherwise:

✅ Wash your
hands<sup><a href="#cmnt1" id="cmnt_ref1">[a]</a></sup> regularly and
properly, for at least 20 seconds with soap and water as the virus can
live on your hands. If there is no soap and water you should use hand
sanitizer that has an alcohol content over 62%.

  
✅ Always cover your mouth when you cough or sneeze to stop the virus
from transferring to somebody else.

  
✅ If you don’t have a tissue to cough or sneeze into, you should cough
or sneeze into the bend of your arm instead. Always throw away the
tissue in a bin with a liner/bag and wash your hands afterwards.

✅ Avoid touching your face. You can carry the virus on your hands and
transfer it into your body through your mouth, nose or eyes. Always wash
your hands before touching your face.

✅ Practice social spacing, don’t stand close to anyone who appears
unwell.

✅ If you have a fever, are finding it difficult to breathe or start to
feel generally unwell, you must isolate yourself immediately, and ask
someone else to tell the staff that you are unwell, who will arrange for
you to be assessed.  
Do not touch anyone, do not share any items with anyone and await
further instructions.  
Do not go unannounced to the medical clinic in the camp as you may
infect other people. You will be told what to do by staff, please be
patient.

Smoking, drinking very hot tea, drugs and alcohol consumption will not
cure you of the disease. If you have a fever, the medical staff may give
you ibuprofen to treat your symptoms. You will need plenty of rest and
to drink lots of water and allow yourself time to get well. These
measures are put in place to help limit the spread throughout the camp.

Note: This hand washing guide should be printed and put above all sinks
and next to wherever the newcomer info sheet is displayed. Teaching
people how to clean their hands properly will help reduce the spread of
infection.

[https://www.who.int/gpsc/clean\_hands\_protection/en/](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.who.int/gpsc/clean_hands_protection/en/&sa=D&ust=1586527387588000)

<a href="#cmnt_ref1" id="cmnt1">[a]</a>from Davina:

Ideally I'd like a graphic of this and no text whats so ever. I may have
a lead of a easy graphic we can use from someone I know
