What To Do If You Could be Sick
===============================

⭐In all cases, follow any care instructions from your healthcare
provider and local health department 

If you are feeling unwell or think you may have been exposed to
COVID-19, take these steps

1.  Isolate

If you have a mild case of COVID-19, you will generally be able to
recover at home:  
❌Do not visit public places or use public transportation.

✅Contact your doctor or local medical center before you come in to get
medical care. Leave home only to get medical care if instructed.

✅Isolate yourself from any other people in your home: stay in a separate
room and use a separate bathroom

If you can, stay home and self-isolate for the full recommended 14 days.
Otherwise, stay at home and self-isolate at least until ALL of the
following conditions are met:

✅At least 7 days have passed since your symptoms began

✅You go 72 hours (three days) without a fever and without taking
fever-reducing medicine

✅Your other symptoms, including cough and shortness of breath, are
improved

1.  Stop the spread

In order to prevent spreading the virus:   
  
❌Do not share dishes, utensils, cups, towels, bedding, or other personal
household items with other people

✅Wear a facemask if you are around any other people

✅Wash your hands frequently. Use soap and water and wash for at least 20
seconds

✅Use hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol content if soap and water
are unavailable

✅When you cough or sneeze, cover your nose and mouth with a tissue or
the bend of your arm, not your hands. Throw tissues away in a lined bin
and immediately wash your hands

✅Clean and disinfect all surfaces in your room every day, especially
surfaces you touch frequently, including phones, keyboards, remote
controls, counters, tabletops, and doorknobs

✅Clean and disinfect all areas that may have blood, stool, or bodily
fluids on them

✅Wash used dishes, utensils, and cups thoroughly with soap and water and
discard the water immediately

✅Monitor and record your symptoms in a written or electronic log

1.  Seek Care if Necessary

If you begin to feel worse or present emergency warning signs for
COVID-19, contact your doctor and seek medical care. Seek medical care
if you experience:

❗ Difficulty breathing or shortness of breath

❗ Persistent pain or pressure in the chest

❗ New confusion or inability to arouse

❗ Bluish lips or face

❗ Severe worsening of symptoms 

Sources

[https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/if-you-are-sick/steps-when-sick.html?CDC\_AA\_refVal=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fcoronavirus%2F2019-ncov%2Fabout%2Fsteps-when-sick.html](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/if-you-are-sick/steps-when-sick.html?CDC_AA_refVal%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fwww.cdc.gov%252Fcoronavirus%252F2019-ncov%252Fabout%252Fsteps-when-sick.html&sa=D&ust=1586527387555000)

[https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prepare/checklist-household-ready.html?CDC\_AA\_refVal=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fcoronavirus%2F2019-ncov%2Fcommunity%2Fhome%2Fchecklist-household-ready.html](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prepare/checklist-household-ready.html?CDC_AA_refVal%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fwww.cdc.gov%252Fcoronavirus%252F2019-ncov%252Fcommunity%252Fhome%252Fchecklist-household-ready.html&sa=D&ust=1586527387555000)

[https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prepare/prevention.html?CDC\_AA\_refVal=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fcoronavirus%2F2019-ncov%2Fabout%2Fprevention.html](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prepare/prevention.html?CDC_AA_refVal%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fwww.cdc.gov%252Fcoronavirus%252F2019-ncov%252Fabout%252Fprevention.html&sa=D&ust=1586527387556000)

[https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/downloads/COVID-19\_CAREKit\_ENG.pdf](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/downloads/COVID-19_CAREKit_ENG.pdf&sa=D&ust=1586527387556000)
